The association relationship is established when an object of one class collaborates with one or more objects of another class. In the following diagram, we will say that the `Person` class knows an instance of the `Pet` class, hence the direction of the arrow is from the `Person` class to the `Pet` class. This relationship represents that `Person` has an attribute of type `Pet`.
### Navigation:
When an association relationship carries an arrow, it indicates a traversal or navigation relationship. This implies that it is possible for an object at one end to access the object at the other end because the former contains specific references to the latter (to which the arrow points), not the other way around. In the following example, we will say that it is the `Person` who has an attribute (object) of the `Job` class. Remember that it always depends on the context. If what we need is to know all the people who work at each job, then the direction of the arrow would be reversed.
### Multiplicity or Cardinality:
Multiplicity, also called cardinality, specifies the number of instances of one class that can be related to a single instance of an associated class. Multiplicity limits the number of related objects. A `Person` has only one job, and that job is performed by many people. As you can see, "many" is represented with a " * " or an "N". To establish multiplicities, first, we stand in one of the classes, for example, the `Person` class, and ask the following question: For an instance of the `Person` class, how many possible instances could it have of the associated class, in this case, `Job`? Then we stand in the other class, in this case, `Job`, and ask the same question: For an instance of the `Job` class, how many possible people could have that job? Multiplicity depends on assumptions and, as we have been mentioning, many times, on the context of the problem. Having little information about the context often makes multiplicity uncertain. An application for tax calculation might allow a person to have multiple jobs. On the other hand, a union of automobile industry workers that kept records of its affiliated workers might consider second jobs irrelevant.
### Usage Relationship
A usage relationship is a type of association that, as its name indicates, is a "uses a" relationship. The peculiarity compared to the other type of association is that there is no reference from one class to another, but the relationship occurs because there is a method that returns or receives as a parameter a variable that is of the type of the other class. In the following example, the `Account` class has a method that returns a `Statement`, but it does not need to have an instance of `Statement` within the `Account`.